the Book of Ruth now it came to pass in
the days when the judges ruled that
there was a famine in the land and a
certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to
dwell in the country of Moab he and his
wife in his two sons the name of the man
was Elimelech the name of his wife was
Naomi and the names of his two sons were
Marlin and Killian f effects of
Bethlehem Judah and they went to the
country of Moab and remained there then
Elimelech Naomi's husband died and she
was left and her two sons now they took
wives of the women of moyen the name of
the one was open and the name of the
other Ruth and they dwelt there about
ten years then both Malin and Killian
also died so the woman survived her two
sons and her husband then she arose with
her daughters-in-law that she might
return from the country of more for she
had heard in the country of Moab that
the Lord had visited his people by
giving them bread therefore she went out
from the place where she was and had two
daughters-in-law with her and they went
on the way to return to the land of
Judah and Naomi said to her two
daughters-in-law
go return each to her mother's house the
Lord deal kindly with you as you have
dealt with the dead and with me the Lord
grant that you may find rest each in the
house of her husband so she kissed them
and they lifted up their voices and wept
surely we will return with you to your
people
turn back my daughters why will you go
with me
are there still sons in my womb that
they need your husband's turn back my
daughters go or I am too old to have a
husband if I should say I have hope if I
should have a husband tonight and should
also bear sons would you wait for them
till they were grown would you restrain
yourselves from having husbands no my
daughters for it grieves me very much
for your sakes but the hand of the Lord
has gone out against me then they lifted
up their voices and wept again and Orpah
kissed her mother-in-law but Ruth clung
to look your sister-in-law has gone back
to her people into her God's return
after your sister-in-law entreat me not
to leave you or to turn back from
following after you for wherever you go
I will go and wherever you Lodge I will
Lodge your people shall be my people and
your God my God where you die I will die
and there will I be buried the Lord do
so to me and more also if anything but
death parts you and me
when she saw that she was determined to
go with her she stopped speaking to her
now the two of them went until they came
to Bethlehem and it happened when they
had come to Bethlehem that all the city
was excited because of them and the
women said is this Naomi do not call me
Naomi call me Mara for the Almighty has
dealt very bitterly with me I went out
full and the Lord has brought me home
again empty why do you call me Naomi
since the Lord has testified against me
and the Almighty has afflicted me so may
me return and ruth the moabite s head
daughter-in-law with her who returned
from the country of mine now they came
to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley
harvest